.TH betafs 1 "Mar-15-2004" "r5.4" "Mjolner Informatics" 
.\"  Copyright (c) 1996-99 Mjolner Informatics
.de BP
.sp
.ti \-.2i
\(**
..

.SH NAME
betafs \- Mjolner BETA Fragment Structure Lister
.SH SYNOPSIS
.hy 0
.na
.B betafs
.IR file ...
.ad b
.hy 1
.PP
.SH AVAILABILITY
The Mjolner BETA Fragment Structure Lister is available as part of the Mjolner
System from Mjolner Informatics.
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Betafs
is a small utility for printing out the entire dependency graph (in
textual format) of a fragment file.  Is usefull for documentation
purposes, and for identifuing possible version problems in the
dependency graph.

.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.I (none)

.PP
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.I betafs
recognizes the environment variable $BETALIB. Please note
that this variable is given default value in the Bourne Shell
script 
.I $BETALIB/configuration/env.sh
.TP
.B BETALIB
Specifies where 
.I ~beta
is located.  If not set,
.I beta
is assumed to be a username, and 
.I ~beta
being the home directory of that user.  Is used by many tools in the Mjolner
System.

.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
.I beta(1)
- BETA Compiler
.br
.sp
.I mjolner(1)
- Mjolner Integrated Development Environment
.br
.sp
.I betatar(1)
- BETA tar(1) front-end
.br
.sp
.I betawc(1)
- BETA fragment analyzer

.PP
.SH AUTHORS
Betafs is developed by Mjolner Informatics as part of the Mjolner
System.

Questions, bug-reports, etc. may be directed to support@mjolner.com if the
local support organization cannot find solutions to the problems.

For more information of the Mjolner System, please contact
Mjolner Informatics, Helsingforsgade 27, DK-8200 Aarhus N,
Aarhus C, Denmark, phone: +45 70 27 43 43, fax: +45 70 27 43 44,
e-mail: info@mjolner.com, web: http://www.mjolner.com.
