.TH betatar 1 "Sept-19-1995" "MBS r3.1" "Mjolner Informatics" 
.\"  Copyright (c) 1995 Mjolner Informatics
.de BP
.sp
.ti \-.2i
\(**
..

.SH NAME
betatar \- BETA tar(1) front-end
.SH SYNOPSIS
.hy 0
.na
.B betatar
.RB "[\|" \-\-help "\|]"
.RB "[\|" \-\-extent "\|]"
.RB "[\|" \-\-domain "\|]"
.RB "[\|" \-\-full "\|]"
.RB "[\|" \-\-exclude
.I string
]
.RB "[\|" \-\-ast "\|]"
.RB "[\|" \-\-asm "\|]"
.RB "[\|" \-\-code "\|]"
.RB "[\|" \-\-debug "\|]"
.RB "[\|" \-\-job "\|]"
.RB "[\|" \-\-dump "\|]"
.RB "[\|" \-\-verbose "\|]"
.RB "[\|" \-\-noCompress "\|]"
.RB "[\|" \-\-gzip "\|]"
.RB "[\|" \-\-list "\|]"
.IR file ...
.ad b
.hy 1
.PP
.SH AVAILABILITY
The Mjolner BETA tar(1) front-end is available as part of the Mjolner
BETA System from Mjolner Informatics.
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I betatar
is an front-end to the 
.B tar(1)
file archive system on UNIX systems.  
.I betatar
is used to create a tar(1) archive of all files related to a BETA
fragment file (BETA source files, etc.)  
.I betatar
is intended to be used for packaging the entire set of files,
contributing to a given BETA program in order to move this program to
another installation for further work (debugging or further
development).  Typical usages include moving a program between, say, a
Linux PC at home and the UNIX workstation at work, between different
development teams.

.I betatar
offers many different options for controlling which files are
packaged into the 
.B tar
file.  The most important aspect of 
.I betatar
is that it ensures that all necessary files are collected into the tar(1)
file (except if certain options are used - see later), such that, when
unpacked, all needed files will be in place for continued work.

.I betatar
works by traversing the dependency graph of the fragment graph,
following ORIGIN, INCLUDE, BODY and MDBODY fragment links, starting
at the fragment specified in the file given as argument to 
.I betatar.
During this traversal (identical to the dependency analysis conducted
by the BETA compiler), 
.I betatar
selects the fragments to be included in the tar(1) file, depending on the
different options specified to
.I betatar.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.B \-\-help
Print this help info
.PD 0
.TP
.B \-\-extent
Traverse the entire dependency graph, including BODY fragments.
.PD 0
.TP
.B \-\-domain 	
Traverse the dependency graph, ignoring BODY and MDBODY fragments.
.PD 0
.TP
.B \-\-full
Choose all fragments found during the traversal of the dependency
graph.  This includes standard libraries form the Mjolner BETA
System.  If 
.I --full
is not specified, all fragments located in $BETALIB/ are ignored
(i.e. standard files are not packed into the tar(1) file).
.PD 0
.TP
.B \-\-exclude
.I string
Ignore fragments found in the traversal if they contain 
.I string
in their filename, surrounded by '/' (e.g. --exclude basiclib will
result in all fragments containing '/basiclib/' will be ignored.
.br
This option may be specified repeatedly in the command line, with
different strings.  The effect will be, that all these fragments are
ignored.
.PD 0
.TP
.B \-\-ast
Include .ast/.astL files in the tar(1) file (if the corresponding .bet
file are selected).
.PD 0
.TP
.B \-\-asm
Include ..s assembler files (if present) in the tar(1) file (if the
corresponding .bet file are selected).
.PD 0
.TP
.B \-\-code
Include .o code files (if present) in the tar file (if the
corresponding .bet file are selected).
.PD 0
.TP
.B \-\-debug
Include ..db debug files (if present) in the tar file (if the
corresponding .bet file are selected).
.PD 0
.TP
.B \-\-job
Include the .job file (if present)
.PD 0
.TP
.B \-\-dump
Include the .dump file (if present)
.PD 0
.TP
.B \-\-verbose
print what is saved on the tar file
.PD 0
.TP
.B \-\-noCompress
do not compress the tar file
.PD 0
.TP
.B \-\-gzip
use 
.B gzip(1)
instead of 
.B compress(1)
to compress the tar file.
.PD 0
.TP
.B \-\-list
list the files to be packed. Do not actually pack the files.
.PP
.SH ENVIRONMENT
The
.I betatar
recognizes the environment variable $BETALIB. Please note
that this variable is given default value in the Bourne Shell
script 
.I $BETALIB/configuration/r3.0/env.sh
.TP
.B BETALIB
Specifies where 
.I ~beta
is located.  If not set,
.I beta
is assumed to be a username, and 
.I ~beta
being the home directory of that user.  Is used by many tools in the Mjolner
BETA System.

.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
.I beta(1)
- BETA Compiler
.br
.sp
.I valhalla(1)
- BETA Source-Level Debugger
.br
.sp
.I betawc(1)
- BETA fragment analyser
.br
.sp
.I sif(1)
- Hyper-Structure Editor - to appear
.PP
.SH BUGS
Currently, 
.I betatar
packs the files with full file path specifications, making it
difficult to unpack the files at another location.
.PP
.SH AUTHORS
The BETA tar(1) front-end is developed by Mjolner Informatics as part of
the Mjolner BETA System.

Questions, bug-reports, etc. may be directed to support@mjolner.dk if the
local support organization cannot find solutions to the problems.

For more information of the Mjolner BETA System, please contact
Mjolner Informatics, Science Park Aarhus, Gustav Wieds Vej 10, DK-8000 Aarhus C,
Denmark, phone: +45 86 20 20 00, fax: +45 86 20 12 22, e-mail:
info@mjolner.dk.
