.TH freja 1 "Feb-6-1997" "MBS r4.0.1" "Mjolner Informatics" 
.\"  Copyright (c) 1995-97 Mjolner Informatics
.de BP
.sp
.ti \-.2i
\(**
..

.SH NAME
freja \- Mjolner BETA CASE Tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.hy 0
.na
.B freja
.IR file ...
.ad b
.hy 1
.PP
.SH AVAILABILITY
The Mjolner BETA CASE Tool is available as part of the Mjolner
BETA System from Mjolner Informatics.
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Freja
is an object-oriented CASE tool supporting system development with BETA as the
implementation language.  Together with the Mjolner Source Browser and
Editor
.I sif(1),
.I freja
supports a smooth transition from design diagrams to
implementation code and vice versa. The design notation is a graphical syntax
for part of the BETA programming language. The basic idea is to use the same
abstract language for design as well as implementation. A graphical syntax is
used for design descriptions and the usual textual syntax is used for program
code.
.I Freja
supports both creation and editing of diagrams from scratch and reverse
engineering existing BETA code into diagrams. When editing diagrams BETA code
is simultaneously being generated. Loading an existing BETA program into
.I freja, 
it can display class and object diagrams corresponding to the code.

.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.I (none)

.PP
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.I Freja
recognizes the environment variable $BETALIB. Please note
that this variable is given default value in the Bourne Shell
script 
.I $BETALIB/configuration/env.sh
.TP
.B BETALIB
Specifies where 
.I ~beta
is located.  If not set,
.I beta
is assumed to be a username, and 
.I ~beta
being the home directory of that user.  Is used by many tools in the Mjolner
BETA System.
.TP
.B DesignPrintCommand
Specifies where
.I freja
is supposed to direct its PostScript print output. The
.I freja
script sets the environment variable to frejaprinter, which makes
.I freja
direct its print output to a file. Alternatively the DesignPrintCommand can be
used to specify that
.I freja
is to print directly on a given printer. This can
e.g be done like this: 'setenv DesignPrintCommand "lpr -Pr312"'.
.br
Where 'lpr -Pr312 is the command for printing on a printer called r312. 

.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
.I beta(1)
- BETA Compiler
.br
.sp
.I sif(1)
- Mjolner BETA Sourcebrowser and Editor
.br
.sp
.I valhalla(1)
- Mjolner BETA Source-Level Debugger
.br
.sp
.I betatar(1)
- BETA tar(1) front-end
.br
.sp
.I betafs(1)
- Mjolner BETA Fragment Structure Lister
.br
.sp
.I betawc(1)
- BETA fragment analyzer
.br
.sp
.I "The Mjolner BETA System - Freja: An object-oriented CASE Tool - Tutorial and Reference Manual,"
Mjolner Informatics Report: MIA 93-31.
.PP
.SH AUTHORS
Freja is developed by Mjolner Informatics as part of the Mjolner BETA
System.

Questions, bug-reports, etc. may be directed to support@mjolner.dk if the
local support organization cannot find solutions to the problems.

For more information of the Mjolner BETA System, please contact
Mjolner Informatics, Science Park Aarhus, Gustav Wieds Vej 10, DK-8000
Aarhus C, Denmark, phone: +45 86 20 20 00, fax: +45 86 20 12 22,
e-mail: info@mjolner.dk.
