.TH frigg 1 "Feb-6-1997" "MBS r4.1" "Mjolner Informatics" 
.\"  Copyright (c) 1995-97 Mjolner Informatics
.de BP
.sp
.ti \-.2i
\(**
..

.SH NAME
frigg \- Mjolner BETA User Interface Builder
.SH SYNOPSIS
.hy 0
.na
.B frigg
.ad b
.hy 1
.PP
.SH AVAILABILITY
The Mjolner BETA User Interface Builder is available as part of the
Mjolner BETA System from Mjolner Informatics.
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Frigg
is the user interface builder of the Mjolner BETA System, it aims at supporting
rapid prototyping and is meant primarily for system designers and developers.
.PP
.PP
.I Frigg
is embedded in 
.I Sif
- the Mjolner BETA Source Browser and Editor - and supplies a graphical editor
that interacts with the 
.I sif(1)
to create a prototyping environment.

The user interface editor lets its users construct the user interface
via direct manipulation, while the necessary code is generated
automatically behind the scene. The generated code can be extended and
tailored using the 
.I sif(1)
structure editor, and this tailoring can take place
at any time during the development of the user interface, because the
graphical editor can keep track of the code even though the code has
been altered in the structure editor. The developer can therefore
alternate between working on the user interface and coding the
underlying functionality.

.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.I (none)

.PP
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.I frigg
recognizes the environment variable $BETALIB. Please note
that this variable is given default value in the Bourne Shell
script 
.I $BETALIB/configuration/env.sh
.TP
.B BETALIB
Specifies where 
.I ~beta
is located.  If not set,
.I beta
is assumed to be a username, and 
.I ~beta
being the home directory of that user.  Is used by many tools in the Mjolner
BETA System.

.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
.I beta(1)
- BETA Compiler
.br
.sp
.I sif(1)
- Hyper-Structure Editor
.br
.sp
.I valhalla(1)
- Mjolner BETA Source-Level Debugger
.br
.sp
.I freja(1)
- Mjolner BETA CASE Tool
.br
.sp
.I betatar(1)
- BETA tar(1) front-end
.br
.sp
.I betafs(1)
- Mjolner BETA Fragment Structure Lister
.br
.sp
.I betawc(1)
- BETA fragment analyzer
.br
.sp
.I "The Mjolner BETA System - Sif: Mjolner BETA Source Browser and Editor - Tutorial and Reference Manual,"
Mjolner Informatics Report: MIA 90-11.
.PP
.SH AUTHORS
Sif is developed by Mjolner Informatics as part of the Mjolner BETA
System.

Questions, bug-reports, etc. may be directed to support@mjolner.dk if the
local support organization cannot find solutions to the problems.

For more information of the Mjolner BETA System, please contact
Mjolner Informatics, Science Park Aarhus, Gustav Wieds Vej 10, DK-8000
Aarhus C, Denmark, phone: +45 86 20 20 00, fax: +45 86 20 12 22,
e-mail: info@mjolner.dk.
