.TH mjolner 1 "Aug-28-1999" "r5.0" "Mjolner Informatics" 
.\"  Copyright (c) 1995-99 Mjolner Informatics
.de BP
.sp
.ti \-.2i
\(**
..

.SH NAME
mjolner \- Mjolner Integrated Development Tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.hy 0
.na
.B mjolner
.IR file ...
.ad b
.hy 1
.PP
.SH AVAILABILITY
The Mjolner Integrated Development Tool is available as part of the Mjolner System from Mjolner Informatics.
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Mjolner
is a general structure editor, especially targeted for browsing and
editing BETA programs.
.I Mjolner
is an integrated development tool that consists of 
the following components: A source browser, a general struc-
ture editor, especially  targeted for browsing and editing 
BETA programs, a source level debugger, a GUI editor (inter-
face builder) a class diagram editor (CASE tool).

.I Mjolner
is integrated with the BETA compiler
.I beta (1).
This integration gives a good support for locating and correcting
semantic errors.

.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.I (none)

.PP
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.I mjolner
recognizes the environment variable $BETALIB. Please note
that this variable is given default value in the Bourne Shell
script 
.I $BETALIB/configuration/env.sh
.TP
.B BETALIB
Specifies where 
.I ~beta
is located.  If not set,
.I beta
is assumed to be a username, and 
.I ~beta
being the home directory of that user.  Is used by many tools in the Mjolner
System.
.TP
.B EDITOR
If specified, simple textediting (as opposed to structure editing) can
be done using the text editor, specified by 
.B EDITOR. 
Simple textediting is activated using the 'External textedit'
command of the Edit menu of
.I mjolner. 
After textediting, the modified text is parsed according to the
corresponding syntactic category.  E.g 
.I emacs (1)
can be used by setting
.B EDITOR 
to
.I /usr/local/bin/emacsclient 
and starting
.I emacs 
as a server by
.I emacs -f server-start.

.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
.I beta(1)
- BETA Compiler
.br
.sp
.I betatar(1)
- BETA tar(1) front-end
.br
.sp
.I betafs(1)
- Mjolner BETA Fragment Structure Lister
.br
.sp
.I betawc(1)
- BETA fragment analyzer
.RE
.PP
.sp 
The Mjolner System - Online Documentation; available in
two forms:
.RS
.TP 6
.I $BETALIB/doc/index.html:
Local copy of the documentation as released with release 5.0.
.TP
.I http://www.mjolner.com/mjolner\-system/
.br
.I documentation/index.html:
.br
Latest version of the documentation.
.RE
.PP
.sp
[MIA 99-39] The Mjolner System: Mjolner Integrated Development
Tool - Overview; available in
two forms:
.RS
.TP 6
.I $BETALIB/doc/mjolner-overview/index.html:
Local copy of the Mjolner Integrated Development Tool overview as released with release 5.0.
.TP
.I http://www.mjolner.com/mjolner\-system/
.br
.I documentation/mjolner-overview/index.html:
.br
Latest version of the Mjolner Integrated Development Tool overview.
.RE
.PP
.sp
[MIA 99-40] The Mjolner System: Mjolner Integrated Development
Tool - Tutorial; available in
two forms:
.RS
.TP 6
.I $BETALIB/doc/mjolner-tut/index.html:
Local copy of the Mjolner Integrated Development Tool tutorial as released with release 5.0.
.TP
.I http://www.mjolner.com/mjolner\-system/
.br
.I documentation/mjolner-tut/index.html:
.br
Latest version of the Mjolner Integrated Development Tool tutorial.
.RE
.PP
.sp
[MIA 99-34] The Mjolner System: Mjolner Integrated Development
Tool - Reference Manual; available in
two forms:
.RS
.TP 6
.I $BETALIB/doc/mjolner/index.html:
Local copy of the Mjolner Integrated Development Tool reference manual as released with release 5.0.
.TP
.I http://www.mjolner.com/mjolner\-system/
.br
.I documentation/mjolner/index.html:
.br
Latest version of the Mjolner Integrated Development Tool reference manual.
.RE
.PP
.SH AUTHORS
Mjolner is developed by Mjolner Informatics as part of the Mjolner 
System.

Questions, bug-reports, etc. may be directed to support@mjolner.com if the
local support organization cannot find solutions to the problems.

For more information of the Mjolner  System, please contact
Mjolner Informatics, Helsingforsgade 27, DK-8200 Aarhus N,
Aarhus C, Denmark, phone: +45 70 27 43 43, fax: +45 70 27 43 44,
e-mail: info@mjolner.com, web: http://www.mjolner.com.
