.TH psbrowser 1 "August-27-1996" "MBS r4.0.1" "Mjolner Informatics" 
.\"  Copyright (c) 1996 Mjolner Informatics
.de BP
.sp
.ti \-.2i
\(**
..

.SH NAME
psbrowser \- Mjolner BETA Persistent Store Browser (version 2.1)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B psbrowser 
.ad b
.hy 1

.PP
.SH AVAILABILITY
The Mjolner BETA Persistent Store Browser is available as part of the
Mjolner BETA System from Mjolner Informatics. 
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I psbrowser
is a generic object browser for browsing in the object structures
stored in a persistent store.
.PP  
The psbrowser is specialized to browse objects found in a persistent
store (~beta/persistentstore/v1.5).  Psbrowser is able to browse
objects whose code is not linked int
o the browser executable.
.PP
Having launched the psbrowser, your next move is to open a persistent store.
Do so by selecting "Open..." from the "File" menu. In the resulting dialog, 
enter the name of the persistent store and click the "Ok" button. A nested 
rootlist listing the names of the persistent roots will appear. The name of 
the rootlist window corresponds to the name of the persistent store. It is
allowed to open multiple persistent stores at a time.
.PP
To open a window showing a persistent root object, double-click the name
of that root in the rootlist. An ObjectView showing the root object will
appear.
.PP
The objectview uses abstract presentation of the objects presented. This
means that nested partobjects are initially shown contracted, i.e. as three
dots. By double-clicking a line of the object view ending in '...', the
hidden details will be shown. By double-clicking the same line again, the
details are hidden.
.PP
Each line in the objectview corresponds to some attribute of the object.
Simple attributes (@Char, @Integer, ...) cannot be further detailed, whereas
other kinds of attributes can.
.PP
It is not possible to browse stores created on architectures with an
endian different from that of the machine runnning the psbrowser
(e.g. between Intel on the one hand and either Motorola, HP-PA,
SGI-MIPS or SPARC on the other hand).
.PP
However, it is a requirement that the persistent store is created,
using the socalled 'full name patch'.
.PP
See the file
~beta/objectbrowser/v2.1/psbrowser/README for more information on how to
use psbrowser.

.SH OPTIONS

(none)

.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
.I beta(1)
- BETA Compiler
.br
.sp
.I betawc(1)
- BETA fragment analyzer
.br
.sp
.I betatar(1)
- BETA tar(1) front-end
.br
.sp
.I betafs(1)
- Mjolner BETA Fragment Structure Lister
.br
.sp
.I sif(1)
- Hyper-Structure Editor
.br
.sp
.I valhalla(1)
- Mjolner BETA Source-Level Debugger
.PP
.SH AUTHORS
.I Psbrowser 
is developed by Mjolner Informatics as part of the Mjolner BETA
System.
.PP
Questions, bug-reports, etc. may be directed to support@mjolner.dk if the
local support organization cannot find solutions to the problems.

For more information of the Mjolner BETA System, please contact
Mjolner Informatics, Science Park Aarhus, Gustav Wieds Vej 10, DK-8000 Aarhus C,
Denmark, phone: +45 86 20 20 00, fax: +45 86 20 12 22, e-mail:
info@mjolner.dk.
