.TH sif 1 "Feb-6-1997" "MBS r4.1" "Mjolner Informatics" 
.\"  Copyright (c) 1995-97 Mjolner Informatics
.de BP
.sp
.ti \-.2i
\(**
..

.SH NAME
sif \- Mjolner BETA Source Browser and Editor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.hy 0
.na
.B sif
.IR file ...
.ad b
.hy 1
.PP
.SH AVAILABILITY
The Mjolner BETA Source Browser and Editor is available as part of the Mjolner
BETA System from Mjolner Informatics.
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Sif
is a general structure editor, especially targeted for browsing and
editing BETA programs.
.I Sif
contains a number of basic components: a source browser, a fragment
group editor and a fragment form editor.  
.I Sif
is integrated with the BETA compiler
.I beta (1).
This integration gives a good support for locating and correcting
semantic errors.

.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.I (none)

.PP
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.I sif
recognizes the environment variable $BETALIB. Please note
that this variable is given default value in the Bourne Shell
script 
.I $BETALIB/configuration/env.sh
.TP
.B BETALIB
Specifies where 
.I ~beta
is located.  If not set,
.I beta
is assumed to be a username, and 
.I ~beta
being the home directory of that user.  Is used by many tools in the Mjolner
BETA System.
.TP
.B EDITOR
If specified, simple textediting (as opposed to structure editing) can
be done using the text editor, specified by 
.B EDITOR. 
Simple textediting is activated using the 'External textedit'
command of the Edit menu of
.I sif. 
After textediting, the modified text is parsed according to the
corresponding syntactic category.  E.g 
.I emacs (1)
can be used by setting
.B EDITOR 
to
.I /usr/local/bin/emacsclient 
and starting
.I emacs 
as a server by
.I emacs -f server-start.

.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
.I beta(1)
- BETA Compiler
.br
.sp
.I valhalla(1)
- Mjolner BETA Source-Level Debugger
.br
.sp
.I betatar(1)
- BETA tar(1) front-end
.br
.sp
.I betafs(1)
- Mjolner BETA Fragment Structure Lister
.br
.sp
.I betawc(1)
- BETA fragment analyzer
.br
.sp
.I "The Mjolner BETA System - Sif: Mjolner BETA Source Browser and Editor - Tutorial and Reference Manual,"
Mjolner Informatics Report: MIA 90-11.
.PP
.SH AUTHORS
Sif is developed by Mjolner Informatics as part of the Mjolner BETA
System.

Questions, bug-reports, etc. may be directed to support@mjolner.dk if the
local support organization cannot find solutions to the problems.

For more information of the Mjolner BETA System, please contact
Mjolner Informatics, Science Park Aarhus, Gustav Wieds Vej 10, DK-8000
Aarhus C, Denmark, phone: +45 86 20 20 00, fax: +45 86 20 12 22,
e-mail: info@mjolner.dk.
