.TH valhalla 1 "June-20-1996" "MBS r4.0" "Mjolner Informatics" 
.\"  Copyright (c) 1996 Mjolner Informatics
.de BP
.sp
.ti \-.2i
\(**
..

.SH NAME
valhalla \- Mjolner BETA Source-Level Debugger (version 2.2)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B valhalla 
.RB "[\|" options "\|]"
[
.I executable
]
.ad b
.hy 1

where 
.I executable 
is the name of the BETA application to be executed and debugged.
.PP
.SH AVAILABILITY
The Mjolner BETA Debugger is available as part of the Mjolner BETA System from
Mjolner Informatics. 
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I valhalla
is the source level debugger for the Mjolner BETA System. 
.I Valhalla 
includes
the following functionality:
.TP
.B Program control
by setting breakpoints and single stepping on BETA source level.
.TP 
.B Static browsing 
of program text by following semantic links. Semantic links include super 
pattern relationships, SLOT bindings, and links from name applications to 
the corresponding declarations.
.TP
.B Dynamic browsing
of call chains and object states of the stopped BETA 
program execution.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS

.PD 0
.TP
.BI "\-EXEC " "executable" 
.TP
.BI "\-EXECNAME " "executable"
.I executable
is the name of the BETA program executable to be executed and debugged.

.PD 0
.TP
.BI "\-ENV " "name value"
.TP
.BI "\-ENVIRONMENT " "name value"
Used to set environment variables for the debugged process. Default
is to hand over the 
.i valhalla
environment. However, by using the
.B ENVIRONMENT
command-line parameter, the default values may be overridden.

.PD 0
.TP
.BI "\-BOPT " "name value"
.TP
.BI "\-BOOLEANOPTION " "name value"
Used to set the boolean option named 
.I name. 
.I Value
should be
.I TRUE
or
.I FALSE. 
See Section BOOLEAN OPTIONS later for details on available boolean options.
.PD 0
.TP
.BI "\-CL " "parameter"
.TP
.BI "\-COMMLINE " "parameter"
Used to give command line parameters to the process being
debugged. One 
.B COMMLINE
is needed for each command lineparameter to be given to the debugged process.
.PD 0
.TP
.BI "\-PID " number"
Used to inform 
.I valhalla 
that it is supposed to debug the
process with process id 
.I number. 
Used if
.I valhalla 
is started after the debugged process.
 
.SH BOOLEAN OPTIONS

The following boolean options can be set (or unset) in the above
mentioned
.B BOOLEANOPTION
option.  All boolean option names below are non-case sensible.

.PD 0
.TP
.B ShortCodeNames
Whether to use truncated imperative names for code expressions shown
on the stack. Default: TRUE.

.PD 0
.TP
.B ReadLabelsOnStartUp
Whether to read labels from executable at startup instead of on
demand. Default: FALSE.

.PD 0
.TP
.B DebugValhalla
Print out
.I valhalla 
debugging information. Default: FALSE.

.PD 0
.TP
.B AlwaysCurCode
Show current code on each process stop, even if no view is currently
open on that code. Default: TRUE.

.PD 0
.TP
.B CharRepOnALine
Whether char repetitions should be shown on a single line. Default:
FALSE.

.PD 0
.TP
.B InvisibleOrigins
Whether origins should initially be invisible in object
views. Default: TRUE.

.PD 0
.TP
.B   NumberObjects
Whether objects should be given a serial number. Default: TRUE.

.PD 0
.TP
.B   ShortObjectTitles
Whether to use truncated pattern names (max 2 pattern names in path)
for object descriptions. Default: TRUE.

.PD 0
.TP
.B   DragOutlineOnOpen
Whether a nested window is dragged on open, or is simply given a
default size and position. Default: TRUE.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B VALHALLAOPTS
May contain command line options to 
.I valhalla
as defined above.  Command line options given on the command line are
given priority over command line options specified in the
.B VALHALLAOPTS
environment variable.
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
.I beta(1)
- BETA Compiler
.br
.sp
.I betawc(1)
- BETA fragment analyzer
.br
.sp
.I betatar(1)
- BETA tar(1) front-end
.br
.sp
.I betafs(1)
- Mjolner BETA Fragment Structure Lister
.br
.sp
.I sif(1)
- Hyper-Structure Editor
.br
.sp
.I "The Mjolner BETA System - Valhalla: The BETA Source-level Debugger - User's Guide,"
Mjolner Informatics Report: MIA 92-12.
.PP
.SH AUTHORS
.I Valhalla 
is developed by Mjolner Informatics as part of the Mjolner BETA
System.
.PP
Questions, bug-reports, etc. may be directed to support@mjolner.dk if the
local support organization cannot find solutions to the problems.

For more information of the Mjolner BETA System, please contact
Mjolner Informatics, Science Park Aarhus, Gustav Wieds Vej 10, DK-8000 Aarhus C,
Denmark, phone: +45 86 20 20 00, fax: +45 86 20 12 22, e-mail:
info@mjolner.dk.
